README.md, before:

<div style="text-align: center;">
<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/joaquinbejar/lightstreamer-rs/refs/heads/main/doc/images/logo.png" alt="lightstreamer-rs" style="width: 100%; height: 100%;">
</div>

[![MIT License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue)](./LICENSE)
[![Crates.io](https://img.shields.io/crates/v/lightstreamer-rs.svg)](https://crates.io/crates/lightstreamer-rs)
[![Downloads](https://img.shields.io/crates/d/lightstreamer-rs.svg)](https://crates.io/crates/lightstreamer-rs)
[![Stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/joaquinbejar/lightstreamer-rs.svg)](https://github.com/joaquinbejar/lightstreamer-rs/stargazers)
[![Issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/joaquinbejar/lightstreamer-rs.svg)](https://github.com/joaquinbejar/lightstreamer-rs/issues)
[![PRs](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-pr/joaquinbejar/lightstreamer-rs.svg)](https://github.com/joaquinbejar/lightstreamer-rs/pulls)
[![Build Status](https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/joaquinbejar/lightstreamer-rs/CI)](https://github.com/joaquinbejar/lightstreamer-rs/actions)
[![Coverage](https://img.shields.io/codecov/c/github/joaquinbejar/lightstreamer-rs)](https://codecov.io/gh/joaquinbejar/lightstreamer-rs)
[![Dependencies](https://img.shields.io/librariesio/github/joaquinbejar/lightstreamer-rs)](https://libraries.io/github/joaquinbejar/lightstreamer-rs)
[![Documentation](https://img.shields.io/badge/docs-latest-blue.svg)](https://docs.rs/lightstreamer-rs)
[![Wiki](https://img.shields.io/badge/docs-latest-blue.svg)](https://deepwiki.com/joaquinbejar/lightstreamer-rs)


## Lightstreamer Rust Client

This project is a Rust implementation of the Lightstreamer TLCP (Text-based Live Connections Protocol). It provides a robust client SDK to interact with Lightstreamer servers, enabling real-time data streaming for financial applications, IoT systems, and other use cases requiring live data updates. While it was initially developed to support the [ig_trading_api](https://github.com/joaquinbejar/ig_trading_api) project, it has evolved into a more comprehensive SDK with broader applicability.

### About Lightstreamer

Lightstreamer is a high-performance real-time messaging server that provides several key features:
- Real-time data streaming with optimized bandwidth usage
- Support for various transport mechanisms (WebSockets, HTTP streaming, etc.)
- Different subscription modes for various data delivery patterns
- Robust connection management with automatic recovery
- Scalable architecture for high-volume applications

### Features

This Rust client SDK provides the following capabilities:

- **Connection Management**:
  - Full-duplex WebSocket-based connection mode
  - Automatic reconnection with configurable retry policies
  - Session recovery after temporary disconnections
  - Connection status monitoring and event notifications
  - Proxy support for enterprise environments

- **Subscription Capabilities**:
  - Support for multiple subscription modes (MERGE, DISTINCT, COMMAND, RAW)
  - Subscription to individual items or item groups
  - Field schema definition for structured data
  - Real-time item updates with change detection
  - Snapshot support for initial state recovery

- **Configuration Options**:
  - Extensive connection options (polling intervals, timeouts, etc.)
  - Bandwidth control and throttling
  - Custom HTTP headers for authentication
  - Logging configuration for debugging

- **Event Handling**:
  - Comprehensive event listener system
  - Subscription lifecycle events (subscription, unsubscription)
  - Item update notifications with field-level change detection
  - Connection status change notifications
  - Error handling and reporting

### Implementation Status

The current implementation supports most core features of the Lightstreamer protocol, with a focus on the WebSocket transport mechanism and the MERGE subscription mode. While initially developed for specific trading API requirements, the library has expanded to include:

- All subscription modes (MERGE, DISTINCT, COMMAND, RAW)
- Robust error handling and recovery mechanisms
- Comprehensive configuration options
- Thread-safe asynchronous operation using Tokio

Some advanced features that may be implemented in future versions include:

- Message sending capabilities (MPN)
- Client-side filtering and frequency limitations
- Additional transport mechanisms beyond WebSockets
- Enhanced security features

### Installation

To use this SDK in your Rust project, add the following dependency to your `Cargo.toml`:

```toml
[dependencies]
lightstreamer-rs = "0.1.3"
```

### Usage

Here's a comprehensive example of how to use the Lightstreamer Rust Client SDK:

```rust
// This example shows how to use the Lightstreamer Rust client
use lightstreamer_rs::client::{LightstreamerClient, Transport};
use lightstreamer_rs::subscription::{Subscription, SubscriptionMode, SubscriptionListener, ItemUpdate};
use std::sync::Arc;
use tokio::sync::Notify;
use std::time::Duration;

// Define a custom subscription listener
struct MySubscriptionListener;

impl SubscriptionListener for MySubscriptionListener {
    fn on_subscription(&self) {
        info!("Subscription confirmed by the server");
    }

    fn on_item_update(&self, update: ItemUpdate) {
        info!("Received update for item: {}", update.get_item_name());
        for field in update.get_fields() {
            if let Some(value) = update.get_value(field) {
                info!("  {} = {}", field, value);
            }
        }
    }
}

async fn example() -> Result<(), Box<dyn std::error::Error + Send + Sync>> {
    // Create a new LightstreamerClient instance
    let result = LightstreamerClient::new(
        Some("ws://your-lightstreamer-server.com"),  // Server address
        Some("YOUR_ADAPTER_SET"),                   // Adapter set
        None,                                       // User (optional)
        None,                                       // Password (optional)
    );

    let mut client = match result {
        Ok(client) => client,
        Err(e) => return Err(e),
    };

    // Configure the connection details if needed
    client.connection_details.set_user("YOUR_USERNAME");
    client.connection_details.set_password("YOUR_PASSWORD");

    // Configure connection options if needed
    client.connection_options.set_content_length(50000000);
    client.connection_options.set_keepalive_interval(5);
    client.connection_options.set_forced_transport(Some(Transport::WsStreaming));

    // Create a shutdown signal for graceful termination
    let shutdown_signal = Arc::new(Notify::new());

    // Connect to the Lightstreamer server
    if let Err(e) = client.connect(shutdown_signal.clone()).await {
        return Err(e);
    }

    // Create a subscription
    let subscription_result = Subscription::new(
        SubscriptionMode::Merge,
        Some(vec!["item1".to_string(), "item2".to_string()]),
        Some(vec!["field1".to_string(), "field2".to_string()]),
    );

    let subscription = match subscription_result {
        Ok(sub) => sub,
        Err(e) => return Err(e),
    };

    // Add a listener to the subscription (optional)
    let listener = Box::new(MySubscriptionListener);
    subscription.add_listener(listener);

    // Get the subscription sender from the client
    // Note: This method might not exist in the current API, check the documentation
    let subscription_sender = client.get_subscriptions()[0].clone();

    // Subscribe and get the subscription ID
    let subscription_id_result = LightstreamerClient::subscribe_get_id(
        subscription_sender.clone(),
        subscription
    ).await;

    let subscription_id = match subscription_id_result {
        Ok(id) => id,
        Err(e) => return Err(e),
    };

    info!("Subscribed with ID: {}", subscription_id);

    // Wait for some time (in a real application, you would wait for a shutdown signal)
    tokio::time::sleep(Duration::from_secs(5)).await;

    // Unsubscribe before disconnecting
    LightstreamerClient::unsubscribe(subscription_sender, subscription_id).await;

    Ok(())
}
```

#### Handling Client Events

You can also add listeners to handle client events:

Here's an example of implementing a client listener:

```rust
// Note: ClientListener is a private trait, this is just for illustration
use lightstreamer_rs::client::model::ClientStatus;

struct MyClientListener;

// This is just an example of what the ClientListener trait might look like
// The actual implementation is internal to the library
trait ClientListener {
    fn on_status_change(&self, status: &ClientStatus);
    fn on_server_error(&self, error_code: i32, error_message: &str);
    fn on_property_change(&self, property: &str);
}

impl ClientListener for MyClientListener {
    fn on_status_change(&self, status: &ClientStatus) {
        info!("Client status changed to: {:?}", status);
    }

    fn on_server_error(&self, error_code: i32, error_message: &str) {
        info!("Server error: {} - {}", error_code, error_message);
    }

    fn on_property_change(&self, property: &str) {
        info!("Property changed: {}", property);
    }
}

// Then add the listener to your client
// client.add_listener(Box::new(MyClientListener));
```




## Contribution and Contact

We welcome contributions to this project! If you would like to contribute, please follow these steps:

1. Fork the repository.
2. Create a new branch for your feature or bug fix.
3. Make your changes and ensure that the project still builds and all tests pass.
4. Commit your changes and push your branch to your forked repository.
5. Submit a pull request to the main repository.

If you have any questions, issues, or would like to provide feedback, please feel free to contact the project maintainer:

**Joaquín Béjar García**
- Email: jb@taunais.com
- GitHub: [joaquinbejar](https://github.com/joaquinbejar)

We appreciate your interest and look forward to your contributions!

## ✍️ License

Licensed under MIT license

Commit message:

Relicense to GPL-3.0 and add proper attribution
This commit addresses licensing compliance by:

1. Changing project license from MIT to GPL-3.0-only
   - Updated LICENSE file with full GPL-3.0 text
   - Updated Cargo.toml license field
   - Updated README.md license badge and section

2. Adding proper attribution to original work
   - Added attribution section in README.md
   - Added copyright notices in all derived source files
   - Created NOTICE file documenting derivation

3. Acknowledging original author
   - Copyright notices reference Daniel López Azaña's lightstreamer-client
   - Link to original project: https://github.com/daniloaz/lightstreamer-client
   - Grateful acknowledgment of pioneering work

This change ensures compliance with GPL-3.0 requirements for derivative
works and properly credits the original author's contributions to the
Rust Lightstreamer ecosystem.

Resolves: #2

README.md, after:

<div style="text-align: center;">
<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/joaquinbejar/lightstreamer-rs/refs/heads/main/doc/images/logo.png" alt="lightstreamer-rs" style="width: 100%; height: 100%;">
</div>

[![GPL-3.0 License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-GPL--3.0-blue)](./LICENSE)
[![Crates.io](https://img.shields.io/crates/v/lightstreamer-rs.svg)](https://crates.io/crates/lightstreamer-rs)
[![Downloads](https://img.shields.io/crates/d/lightstreamer-rs.svg)](https://crates.io/crates/lightstreamer-rs)
[![Stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/joaquinbejar/lightstreamer-rs.svg)](https://github.com/joaquinbejar/lightstreamer-rs/stargazers)
[![Issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/joaquinbejar/lightstreamer-rs.svg)](https://github.com/joaquinbejar/lightstreamer-rs/issues)
[![PRs](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-pr/joaquinbejar/lightstreamer-rs.svg)](https://github.com/joaquinbejar/lightstreamer-rs/pulls)
[![Build Status](https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/joaquinbejar/lightstreamer-rs/CI)](https://github.com/joaquinbejar/lightstreamer-rs/actions)
[![Coverage](https://img.shields.io/codecov/c/github/joaquinbejar/lightstreamer-rs)](https://codecov.io/gh/joaquinbejar/lightstreamer-rs)
[![Dependencies](https://img.shields.io/librariesio/github/joaquinbejar/lightstreamer-rs)](https://libraries.io/github/joaquinbejar/lightstreamer-rs)
[![Documentation](https://img.shields.io/badge/docs-latest-blue.svg)](https://docs.rs/lightstreamer-rs)
[![Wiki](https://img.shields.io/badge/docs-latest-blue.svg)](https://deepwiki.com/joaquinbejar/lightstreamer-rs)


## Lightstreamer Rust Client

This project is a Rust implementation of the Lightstreamer TLCP (Text-based Live Connections Protocol). It provides a robust client SDK to interact with Lightstreamer servers, enabling real-time data streaming for financial applications, IoT systems, and other use cases requiring live data updates. While it was initially developed to support the [ig_trading_api](https://github.com/joaquinbejar/ig_trading_api) project, it has evolved into a more comprehensive SDK with broader applicability.

### Attribution

This project contains code derived from [lightstreamer-client](https://github.com/daniloaz/lightstreamer-client) by Daniel López Azaña, originally published under GPL-3.0-only license in February 2024. We are grateful for Daniel's pioneering work in bringing Lightstreamer support to the Rust ecosystem. Portions of this codebase, including but not limited to the `ItemUpdate` structure and related functionality, are based on or inspired by his original implementation.

### About Lightstreamer

Lightstreamer is a high-performance real-time messaging server that provides several key features:
- Real-time data streaming with optimized bandwidth usage
- Support for various transport mechanisms (WebSockets, HTTP streaming, etc.)
- Different subscription modes for various data delivery patterns
- Robust connection management with automatic recovery
- Scalable architecture for high-volume applications

### Features

This Rust client SDK provides the following capabilities:

- **Connection Management**:
  - Full-duplex WebSocket-based connection mode
  - Automatic reconnection with configurable retry policies
  - Session recovery after temporary disconnections
  - Connection status monitoring and event notifications
  - Proxy support for enterprise environments

- **Subscription Capabilities**:
  - Support for multiple subscription modes (MERGE, DISTINCT, COMMAND, RAW)
  - Subscription to individual items or item groups
  - Field schema definition for structured data
  - Real-time item updates with change detection
  - Snapshot support for initial state recovery

- **Configuration Options**:
  - Extensive connection options (polling intervals, timeouts, etc.)
  - Bandwidth control and throttling
  - Custom HTTP headers for authentication
  - Logging configuration for debugging

- **Event Handling**:
  - Comprehensive event listener system
  - Subscription lifecycle events (subscription, unsubscription)
  - Item update notifications with field-level change detection
  - Connection status change notifications
  - Error handling and reporting

### Implementation Status

The current implementation supports most core features of the Lightstreamer protocol, with a focus on the WebSocket transport mechanism and the MERGE subscription mode. While initially developed for specific trading API requirements, the library has expanded to include:

- All subscription modes (MERGE, DISTINCT, COMMAND, RAW)
- Robust error handling and recovery mechanisms
- Comprehensive configuration options
- Thread-safe asynchronous operation using Tokio

Some advanced features that may be implemented in future versions include:

- Message sending capabilities (MPN)
- Client-side filtering and frequency limitations
- Additional transport mechanisms beyond WebSockets
- Enhanced security features

### Installation

To use this SDK in your Rust project, add the following dependency to your `Cargo.toml`:

```toml
[dependencies]
lightstreamer-rs = "0.1.3"
```

### Usage

Here's a comprehensive example of how to use the Lightstreamer Rust Client SDK:

```rust
// This example shows how to use the Lightstreamer Rust client
use lightstreamer_rs::client::{LightstreamerClient, Transport};
use lightstreamer_rs::subscription::{Subscription, SubscriptionMode, SubscriptionListener, ItemUpdate};
use std::sync::Arc;
use tokio::sync::Notify;
use std::time::Duration;

// Define a custom subscription listener
struct MySubscriptionListener;

impl SubscriptionListener for MySubscriptionListener {
    fn on_subscription(&self) {
        info!("Subscription confirmed by the server");
    }

    fn on_item_update(&self, update: ItemUpdate) {
        info!("Received update for item: {}", update.get_item_name());
        for field in update.get_fields() {
            if let Some(value) = update.get_value(field) {
                info!("  {} = {}", field, value);
            }
        }
    }
}

async fn example() -> Result<(), Box<dyn std::error::Error + Send + Sync>> {
    // Create a new LightstreamerClient instance
    let result = LightstreamerClient::new(
        Some("ws://your-lightstreamer-server.com"),  // Server address
        Some("YOUR_ADAPTER_SET"),                   // Adapter set
        None,                                       // User (optional)
        None,                                       // Password (optional)
    );

    let mut client = match result {
        Ok(client) => client,
        Err(e) => return Err(e),
    };

    // Configure the connection details if needed
    client.connection_details.set_user("YOUR_USERNAME");
    client.connection_details.set_password("YOUR_PASSWORD");

    // Configure connection options if needed
    client.connection_options.set_content_length(50000000);
    client.connection_options.set_keepalive_interval(5);
    client.connection_options.set_forced_transport(Some(Transport::WsStreaming));

    // Create a shutdown signal for graceful termination
    let shutdown_signal = Arc::new(Notify::new());

    // Connect to the Lightstreamer server
    if let Err(e) = client.connect(shutdown_signal.clone()).await {
        return Err(e);
    }

    // Create a subscription
    let subscription_result = Subscription::new(
        SubscriptionMode::Merge,
        Some(vec!["item1".to_string(), "item2".to_string()]),
        Some(vec!["field1".to_string(), "field2".to_string()]),
    );

    let subscription = match subscription_result {
        Ok(sub) => sub,
        Err(e) => return Err(e),
    };

    // Add a listener to the subscription (optional)
    let listener = Box::new(MySubscriptionListener);
    subscription.add_listener(listener);

    // Get the subscription sender from the client
    // Note: This method might not exist in the current API, check the documentation
    let subscription_sender = client.get_subscriptions()[0].clone();

    // Subscribe and get the subscription ID
    let subscription_id_result = LightstreamerClient::subscribe_get_id(
        subscription_sender.clone(),
        subscription
    ).await;

    let subscription_id = match subscription_id_result {
        Ok(id) => id,
        Err(e) => return Err(e),
    };

    info!("Subscribed with ID: {}", subscription_id);

    // Wait for some time (in a real application, you would wait for a shutdown signal)
    tokio::time::sleep(Duration::from_secs(5)).await;

    // Unsubscribe before disconnecting
    LightstreamerClient::unsubscribe(subscription_sender, subscription_id).await;

    Ok(())
}
```

#### Handling Client Events

You can also add listeners to handle client events:

Here's an example of implementing a client listener:

```rust
// Note: ClientListener is a private trait, this is just for illustration
use lightstreamer_rs::client::model::ClientStatus;

struct MyClientListener;

// This is just an example of what the ClientListener trait might look like
// The actual implementation is internal to the library
trait ClientListener {
    fn on_status_change(&self, status: &ClientStatus);
    fn on_server_error(&self, error_code: i32, error_message: &str);
    fn on_property_change(&self, property: &str);
}

impl ClientListener for MyClientListener {
    fn on_status_change(&self, status: &ClientStatus) {
        info!("Client status changed to: {:?}", status);
    }

    fn on_server_error(&self, error_code: i32, error_message: &str) {
        info!("Server error: {} - {}", error_code, error_message);
    }

    fn on_property_change(&self, property: &str) {
        info!("Property changed: {}", property);
    }
}

// Then add the listener to your client
// client.add_listener(Box::new(MyClientListener));
```




## Contribution and Contact

We welcome contributions to this project! If you would like to contribute, please follow these steps:

1. Fork the repository.
2. Create a new branch for your feature or bug fix.
3. Make your changes and ensure that the project still builds and all tests pass.
4. Commit your changes and push your branch to your forked repository.
5. Submit a pull request to the main repository.

If you have any questions, issues, or would like to provide feedback, please feel free to contact the project maintainer:

**Joaquín Béjar García**
- Email: jb@taunais.com
- GitHub: [joaquinbejar](https://github.com/joaquinbejar)

We appreciate your interest and look forward to your contributions!

## ✍️ License

This project is licensed under the GNU General Public License v3.0 (GPL-3.0-only). See the [LICENSE](./LICENSE) file for details.

### Copyright Notices

- Copyright (C) 2024 Joaquín Béjar García
- Portions derived from [lightstreamer-client](https://github.com/daniloaz/lightstreamer-client) - Copyright (C) 2024 Daniel López Azaña

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation, version 3 of the License.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.
